-MH: Monster Hunter is a third person action rpg? series where as the title says, you Hunt Monsters
You are a hunter, you usually serve as the main problem solver of your local village, which is usually "[monster] is causing problems, go deal with it".

You have 14 weapon types to choose from, and to become stronger, you need to get better armor and weapons.
And to get materials for said upgrades, you have to Hunt Monsters.

The first one came out in March 11, 2001, while the latest (Monster Hunter Rise) came out in March 26, 2021, and it's main expansion, Sunbreak, in June 30, 2022.
[insert pics of Rise/Sunbreak]

The games tha I've played: 
MH Generations Ultimate (MHGU)[link to page]: a collection of monsters from all previous mainline games, with it's own twists: Hunter Arts, Hunting Styles and Prowler mode
MH Rise: Sunbreak[link to page]: The "portable" 5th gen Monster Hunter pulls all stops and goes full anime with greatly increased mobility, wirebug arts and Switch Skils
(some can be traced back to MHGU's Hunter Arts and Hunting Styles), and the base game's camapign residing in a very japanese inspired village, Kamura.
The expansion does switch the main hub from Kamura to a more European themes port, Elgado, but some aspects still remain japanese, like Dango being the main meal preparation before hunts.

--MHGU: A great mix of old and new
You, the hunter, are tasked to help the 4 villages of the past: [fuck I forgor so remember to list them as "Village name(game they're from)"], and Bherna, a village new to this game. 
In the Solo/Village Low Rank questline, you stumble upon to and fight the Fated Four[link to page], and end it with taking on Shagaru Magala, the monster that was MH4U's final quest monster in their low rank questline. 
After that, in High Rank Village you take to the skies, and try to investigate and hunt down Valstrax, a monster new to the expansion.

On the multiplayer side of the game, you have the Hub quests, with higher monster endurance but you get to bring up to 3 of your friends (or others on the internet) as allies to aid your hunts.
In low and high rank, your final quest to undertake is [squid], confined within it's own arena and new to this game.
In G rank (Master Rank), you get to do it again, but now the end monster is a walking castle/bug

The hunter has 2.5 sets of tools to help them in the hunts: Hunting Styles[link to page], which change up how the weapon is handled; Hunter Arts[link to page], which lets the user do really powerful moves, but have to be charged up, and Prowler mode, the 0.5 tool as the player may initiate the Quest as one of their Palicoes with their own limitations and style of play.

---Hunting Styles

Hunting styles can drastically change how a weapon feels, can be used and how many Hunter Arts[link to page] can be selected at once. The initial release, Monster Hunter Generations, had 4 to choose from, while the explansion added 2 more.

Unless notes, one Hunter Art may be selected as an "SP" Hunter Art, which increases charge-up time, but grants the user and allies relatively nearby SP Mode, which gives bonuses depending on the Hunting Stlye.

-Guild Style
This style provides the base moveset from prior monster hunter games, which sometimes is all that you need. Can select 2 Hunter Arts.

SP mode: The user uses items faster.

-Adept Style
This style simplifies a weapon's moveset in exchange of an extra Hunter Art slot (can select 3).

SP Mode: Hunter Arts charge over time.

-Aerial Style
This style modifies the roll (or alternatives) of all weapons into a vaulting roll, which lets the user jump off of monsters and players alike and strike from the air, providing multiple mounts in a hunt.
The moveset is altered so weapons are better in the air and worse on the ground on average. Can select 1 Hunter Art.

SP Mode: Recover stamina while vaulting.

-Adept Style
This style modifies the rol of all weapons into a evasive roll, with extended Iframes. If hit, the roll changes into a special evade from which powerful attacks can be swiftly achieved. Weapons with the ability to Block (except HBG) gain the Adept Block, which if timed correctly, can block an attack without receieving chip damage nor consuming stamina, and provides counterattack opportunities.
SnS and CB have access to both (SnS always, CB depending on mode), Lance and GL have Adept Block, and the rest have Adept Evade.
The moveset is altered so that great damaging options are mainly available as counter options only. Can select 1 Hunter Art.

SP Mode: Increases timing window for Adept Evade/Block.

Generations Ultimate provides these 2 as extra:

-Bushido/Valor Style
Naming depends on console (3DS MHXX translated might use Bushido, Switch uses Valor). Provides the Valor Stance, Valog Gauge and Valor Evade.
Sheathing the weapon now uses a special animation and can be held, which is the Valor Stance. While in the Stance, you drain stamina and suffer minor health drain. If struck within the Stance, a Valor Evade is performed, which inflicts a fraction of the inflicted damage as Recoverable (Red) Damage, and does a backwards roll, sheathing the weapon in the process.
While in the Stance, you may press certain buttons to use certain attacks/actions. These attacks (and Valor Evades) fill the Valor Gauge quicker.
When the Valor Gauge fills up, it turns red and starts to slowly drain. While it's red, the user gets to use an enhanced moveset, which can include greater evasive mobility, faster access to powerful attacks and unique variants of attacks (Like HBG's and GL's attacks gradually goes faster as you use them).
If the Gauge fully empties, the gauge turns blue and the moveset switches back.
Can select 1 Hunter Art.

SP Mode:Valor Gauge fills faster. 

-Alchemy Style
Provides 3 
